Minutes from 2022-03-10 (#100)
confidential-computing/governance: TAC/Meetings/2022/2022-03-10/CCC_TAC_Minutes-2022-03-10.md

* **Declared project dependencies**: [Google Sheets](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UKnbbGWXYLjnPZsox3zmYo59nv3XSXjePfas5E2fER0/edit#gid=0)
* **YouTube**: [youtube.confidentialcomputing.io](https://youtube.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **LFX**: [lfx.linuxfoundation.org](https://lfx.linuxfoundation.org)
* **Join the CCC**: [join.confidentialcomputing.io](https://join.confidentialcomputing.io)
* **Contact the CCC**: [confidentialcomputing.io/contact-us/](https://confidentialcomputing.io/contact-us/)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Welcome

Rep. Thaler opened the call at 7:05a PT. He welcomed the members of the TAC and reviewed the values of the CCC and the antitrust policy of the Linux Foundation.

### Roll Call / Attendance

#### Voting members

* Dan Middleton (Intel)
* Dave Thaler (Microsoft)
* Eric Northup (Meta)
* Lily Sturman (Red Hat)
* Zhipeng (Howard) Huang (Huawei)
* Thomas Fossati (Arm)

#### Other attendees

* Ben Fischer (Red Hat)
* Brian Warner (Linux Foundation)
* Eric Voit (Cisco)
* Helen Lau (Linux Foundation)

> * Henk Birkholz ()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Henk Birkholz (Fraunhofer)
```

* Kurt Taylor (Linux Foundation)
* Naveen Cherukuri (Nvidia)
* Mike Bursell (Profian)
* Nick Vidal (Profian)
* Penglin Yang (China Mobile)
* Sneha Damle (R3)
* Simon Johnson (Intel)
* Steve Van Lare (Anjuna)
* Xinxin Fan (IoTeX)

### Meeting minute approvals

#### Approved by voting members

**RESOLVED:** That the minutes of the [December 16, 2021](../../2021/2021-12-16/TAC_Minutes-2021-12-16.pdf) meeting of the Technical Advisory Council meeting of the Confidential Computing Consortium as distributed to the members of the TAC in advance of this meeting are hereby adopted and approved.

> **RESOLVED:** That the minutes of the [February 10, 2022](https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/pull/93/files) meeting of the Technical Advisory Council meeting of the Confidential Computing Consortium as distributed to the members of the TAC in advance of this meeting are hereby adopted and approved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**RESOLVED:** That the minutes of the [February 10, 2022](https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/pull/93/files) meeting of the Technical Advisory Council meeting of the Confidential Computing Consortium as distributed to the members of the TAC during this meeting are hereby adopted and approved.
```
There were changes to the minutes during the meeting

**RESOLVED:** That the minutes of the * [December 16, 2021](../../2021/2021-12-16/TAC_Minutes-2021-12-16.pdf) meeting of the Technical Advisory Council meeting of the Confidential Computing Consortium as distributed to the members of the TAC in advance of this meeting are hereby adopted and approved.

#### Pending approval

* None

### Open Action Items

1. **[Stephen, Zongmin]** Recommend diversity and inclusion training to their projects and report back to the TAC on whether the maintainers or the contributors will be taking it and when the expected completion date is.
    * Gramine reports they have taken it.
    * Enarx reports they have taken it.

1. **[Stephen Walli, Dan Middleton, Aeva Black]** Develop a CoC escalation process, to be presented to TAC and governing board.

>     * Dan Middleton has [opened a PR for review](https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/pull/92)

Reviewer 2: I think we decided this is a duplicate of the action below and that since we now have a PR we would track this in the PRs instead of as a separate action item.

1. **[Mike, Eric V, Stephen, Zongmin]** Recommend diversity and inclusion training to their projects and report back to the TAC on whether the maintainers or the contributors will be taking it and when the expected completion date is.
    * Open Enclave maintainers are close to 100% trained (Dave Thaler)
    * Veracruz lead has taken the course (Thomas Fossati).
    * Please report back that project maintainers have been made aware of the training, and have been asked to take it.

> 1. **[Stephen Walli, Dan Middleton, Aeva Black]** Develop a CoC escalation process, to be presented to TAC and governing board.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **[Stephen Walli, Dan Middleton, Aeva Black]** Develop a CoC escalation process, to be presented to the TAC and governing board.
```

> 1. **[Brian Warner]** Investigate prior efforts to finalize Graduated lifecycle language, and if needed file an issue to finalize Graduated lifecycle language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **[Brian Warner]** Investigate prior efforts to finalize Graduation lifecycle language, and if needed file an issue to finalize Graduation lifecycle language.
```

### Completed Action Items

1. **[Brian Warner]** Update the Google Sheet containing the [list of CCC dependencies](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UKnbbGWXYLjnPZsox3zmYo59nv3XSXjePfas5E2fER0/edit#gid=0) with the changed dependencies noted in the project review document.

1. **[Brian Warner]** Add Enarx annual review to the agenda for March 10th TAC meeting.

1. **[Brian Warner]** Add slide to this deck reminding the TAC to review PRs and issues, time permitting.

1. **[Brian Warner]** Schedule a deep-dive into LFX code scanning for April 19, 2022.
    * Confirmed, Shubhra Kar and David Deal from LF to present.

1. **[Dan Middleton]** Work with CCC Attestation to schedule annual review, tentatively for March 24, 2022.
    * Date needs to be changed, as it clashes with IETF.
    * Will also impact TAC meeting attendance.
        * TAC meeting on March 24, 2022 will be cancelled.
    * Moved to April 5, 2022.

### Project overviews

* Veraison
    * Dave Thaler (DT) noted that Veraison was approved by the TAC, and is ready for next steps (technical charter, IP transfer, board approval).

### TAC Tech Talk - Overview of TCG Confidential Computing

> Henk Birkholtz (HB) introduced himself and the topic of Transparent Confidentiality, and provided a discussion on TCG. Discussion ensued over the definition of confidential computing and the role of a hardware-based TEE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Henk Birkholtz (HB) introduced himself and the topic of Transparent Confidentiality, and provided a discussion on work in the [Trusted Computing Group (TCG)](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/). Discussion ensued over the definition of confidential computing and the role of a hardware-based TEE.
```

NV noted some changes to third-party dependencies.

**Action:** BW to verify that third-party dependencies appear in the [CCC dependencies spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UKnbbGWXYLjnPZsox3zmYo59nv3XSXjePfas5E2fER0/edit#gid=0).

MB noted that the Rust implementation of OpenSSL has been challenging for the project, and reviewed alternate implementations. He invited others to participate in the development process. DM noted he's aware of some other alternatives. MB reviewed the status of Rust-native implementations.

NV noted Enarx has begun to make formal releases and reviewed the release process. NV next reviewed the project's progression status. He reviewed the history of the project, and noted that there is continued collaboration with Red Hat. He noted that the project is working towards the requirements to diversify maintainers.

NV noted that the [project is using LFX Insights](https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/projects/ccc%2Fccc-enarx/dashboard;quicktime=time_filter_3Y) to measure progress and growth within the community. He reviewed community growth in the core team and outside contributors.

> He noted that Enarx is not ready to request a move to Incubation stage, but that the project is showing a lot of continued growth. He noted the project does not yet feel it has met the requirements to have widespread adoption in at least two end-users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
He noted that Enarx is not ready to request a move to Incubation stage, but that the project is showing a lot of continued growth. He noted the project does not yet feel it has met the requirements to have widespread adoption in at least two end-user organizations.
```

MB noted that the ideal situation is that applications are built as WASM executables. He noted there is also a debug path using a kvm-hosted version of the Enarx TEE. Discussion ensued over the ideal time to adapt code to use Enarx. Discussion ensued over WASI.

### Common terminology

DT requested that Eric Voit (EV) and Steve Van Lare (SVL) provide an update. SVL noted that Anjuna plans to increase engagement in the discussion. EV noted there have been some new comments on the text.

He noted the first question was whether "Isolation" is an appropriate name. SVL noted that this is a good term because it is related to code packaging. Discussion ensued over "Memory Isolation" or "Memory Protection". Simon Johnson provided input on revised terms to reflect the way that SGX works. Discussion ensued.

The second question was about representation of VMs vs. containers. Discussion ensued.

### Outreach update

> BW reviewed recent topics handled by the Outreach committee. He noted that a webinar will be held on March 15 at 8a called [The Hard Facts About Confidential Computing: Understanding Hardware’s Role in Delivering a New Level of Data Security](https://confidentialcomputing.io/webinar-the-hard-facts-about-confidential-computing/). He requested that TAC members amplify the social media posts and invite their colleagues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BW reviewed recent topics handled by the Outreach committee. He noted that a webinar will be held on March 15 at 8am Pacific called [The Hard Facts About Confidential Computing: Understanding Hardware’s Role in Delivering a New Level of Data Security](https://confidentialcomputing.io/webinar-the-hard-facts-about-confidential-computing/). He requested that TAC members amplify the social media posts and invite their colleagues.
```

BW next noted discussions on mentorship led by NV. He also noted a discussion on event prioritization, and preparations to re-engage with analysts. Finally, he noted the website planning sub-team plans to begin meeting starting next week.

### Future topics

> DT noted that the March 24th meeting will be skipped. He noted that CCC-Attestation will be providing a review on April 5, and a tech talk on confidential computing from the perspective of the network. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
DT noted that the March 24th meeting will be skipped. He noted that CCC-Attestation will be providing a review on April 5, and on the same date Eric Voit will do a tech talk on confidential computing from the perspective of the network. 
```

> DT noted that the March 24th meeting will be skipped. He noted that CCC-Attestation will be providing a review on April 5, and on the same date Eric Voit will do a tech talk on confidential computing from the perspective of the network. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DT noted that the March 24th meeting will be skipped to not interfere with [IETF meeting](https://www.ietf.org/how/meetings/113/) attendance and encouraged TAC attendees to attend the IETF RATS and/or TEEP meetings as appropriate. He noted that CCC-Attestation will be providing a review on April 5, and on the same date Eric Voit will do a tech talk on confidential computing from the perspective of the network. 
```

* Dave Thaler (Microsoft)
* Eric Northup (Meta)
* Lily Sturman (Red Hat)
* Zhipeng (Howard) Huang (Huawei)
* Thomas Fossati (Arm)

#### Other attendees

* Ben Fischer (Red Hat)
* Brian Warner (Linux Foundation)
* Eric Voit (Cisco)
* Helen Lau (Linux Foundation)
* Henk Birkholz (Fraunhofer)
* Kurt Taylor (Linux Foundation)
* Naveen Cherukuri (Nvidia)
* Mike Bursell (Profian)
* Nick Vidal (Profian)
* Penglin Yang (China Mobile)
* Sneha Damle (R3)
* Simon Johnson (Intel)
* Steve Van Lare (Anjuna)
* Xinxin Fan (IoTeX)

### Meeting minute approvals

#### Approved by voting members

**RESOLVED:** That the minutes of the [December 16, 2021](../../2021/2021-12-16/TAC_Minutes-2021-12-16.pdf) meeting of the Technical Advisory Council meeting of the Confidential Computing Consortium as distributed to the members of the TAC in advance of this meeting are hereby adopted and approved.

**RESOLVED:** That the minutes of the [February 10, 2022](https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/pull/93/files) meeting of the Technical Advisory Council meeting of the Confidential Computing Consortium as distributed to the members of the TAC during this meeting are hereby adopted and approved.

> **RESOLVED:** That the minutes of the * [December 16, 2021](../../2021/2021-12-16/TAC_Minutes-2021-12-16.pdf) meeting of the Technical Advisory Council meeting of the Confidential Computing Consortium as distributed to the members of the TAC in advance of this meeting are hereby adopted and approved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**RESOLVED:** That the minutes of the [December 16, 2021](../../2021/2021-12-16/TAC_Minutes-2021-12-16.pdf) meeting of the Technical Advisory Council meeting of the Confidential Computing Consortium as distributed to the members of the TAC in advance of this meeting are hereby adopted and approved.
```
